[Music]
well hey there here's some weird
astronomical stuff for your
consideration it rains
molten glass on some planets others have
moons with their own rings some planets
have active volcanoes that spit ice
scientists now know what space sounds
like enthralled then let's discover some
more astounding space facts Venus spins
at its own unhurried pace a full
rotation takes 243 Earth days and it
takes the planet a bit less than 225
Earth days to go all the way around the
Sun it means a day on Venus is longer
than a year there are tens of thousands
of black holes at the center of our home
Milky Way galaxy hundreds of them are
paired with a star and nearly 10,000 are
isolated ones black holes are impossible
to spot because light can't escape from
them
astronomers can only track them down
with album x-rays or by estimating their
gravitational pull you can see solar
eclipses because even though the moon is
400 times smaller than the Sun it's also
400 times closer to earth so it's
perfectly capable of obscuring the star
but in 50 million years I won't be
around then the moon won't be able to
block the Sun completely because of the
satellites changing orbit the highest
mountain in the solar system is Olympus
Mons on Mars it's three times as high as
Mount Everest the Earth's highest
mountain above sea level if you were
standing on top of Olympus Mons
you wouldn't understand you were
standing on a mountain its slopes would
be hidden by the planet's curvature a
full NASA spacesuit costs an
unbelievable twelve million dollars yeah
I can believe that 70% of this hefty sum
is for the control module and backpack
astronomers have found a massive
reservoir of water in space the largest
ever detected too bad it's also the
farthest 12 billion light-years away
from us the water vapor cloud hole
140 trillion times as much water as all
the Earth's oceans combined utter space
isn't a perfect vacuum it contains not
only stars and planets but also clouds
of interstellar dust space plasma and
cosmic rays those are atom fragments
dashing from the outskirts of the solar
system one phenomenon people should be
worried about while exploring space is
cold welding if two pieces of the same
kind of metal touch in space they bond
and get permanently stuck together it
doesn't happen on earth since water and
air keep pieces separate astronauts on
board the International Space Station
don't use their feet to walk they float
around so in orbit the skin on their
feet becomes very soft and starts to
peel off that's why they have to take
their socks off very carefully otherwise
skin cells will break free and float
around in the almost weightless
environment earthquakes on the moon or
more correctly moon quakes aren't
something from science fiction they
don't occur as often as on our planet
and when they do it happens closer to
the center of the satellite
scientists think moon quakes might be
caused by the gravity of Earth and the
Sun one of the moons of Saturn Rhea
might have a ring system consisting of
three narrow bands if astronomers
managed to confirm it it'll be the first
time people discovered rings around a
moon a that's nothing I've had rings
around my collar for years
normal visible matter for example
planets and stars makes up just 5% of
the universe the rest consists of
invisible dark energy that's 68% and
dark matter about 27% add it up and
there's 95% of space we know nothing
about in its darkest areas space is
freezing cold
- 454 degrees Fahrenheit but try
orbiting Earth and the sunlight and
you'll understand how scorching 250
degrees feel that's one of the reasons
astronauts spacesuits are white this
color is the best
reflect the heat from the Sun there are
six Mars exploration missions on or
around the Red Planet at the moment does
that mean that Mars is inhabited by
robots the little green men aren't
saying if the Sun was the size of a
front door our planet would be the size
of a nickel in other words the Sun could
fit more than 1 million Earth's moon
rocks have a super slow erosion rate
about 0.04 inches for every 1 million
years that's why the Apollo astronauts
footprints left on the moon are likely
to stay there for 10 to 100 million
years Jupiter's moon Io is
four-and-a-half billion years old
almost as old as the planet itself it's
one of the very few bodies in the solar
system with active volcanoes and these
volcanoes are powerful enough to produce
spectacular views that are later
captured by Earth's telescopes oh by the
way II uh is named after a legendary
maiden who is loved by the Greek god
Zeus in the myth Zeus turned her into a
heifer in an attempt to hide her from
his jealous wife era Wow so the cow did
jump over the moon oh I think we could
use some more cowbell okay enough with
the cows back to space a neutron star
gets born after a supernova collapses
after birth it rotates extremely fast
about 60 times per second but this rate
can sometimes grow up to 600 times per
second makes me dizzy space isn't
supposed to be black there are stars
everywhere shouldn't they light
everything up around you don't see stars
wherever you look because some of them
haven't existed long enough for their
light to reach earth another one of
Saturn's moons
eahhh pitous has a unique two-tone
coloring the difference between the
satellites to hemispheres is impressive
one of them is light and the other is
eerily dark scientists haven't figured
out this mystery yet all of the planets
of the solar system would fit between
Earth and the moon with some space left
yes there's lots of space in space
Saturn isn't the only planet that has
rings gas giants Uranus Neptune and
Jupiter have rings of their own but they
are thin and almost impossible to see
NASA can convert plasma waves radio
waves and magnetic fields into audio
tracks and listen to what's happening in
space they record all kinds of
intriguing sounds from beeps - ambulance
like Howl's at the same time space
itself is an eerily silent place there
are some sound waves and vibrations but
people can't perceive them chariklo is a
tiny celestial body orbiting the Sun
between Saturn and Uranus in the outer
solar system just 157 miles across it's
not a planet but it has two rings of its
own and that's not one of them one of
the things Jupiter's famous for is the
Great Red Spot a giant spinning storm
this phenomenon used to be so gigantic
that it could fit two or even three
Earth's but the spot is shrinking right
now it wouldn't fit more than one earth
astronomers have found out the real hue
of a planet orbiting another star for
the first time HD 189 733 beam has a
beautiful azure color the reason might
be molten glass rain falling down on the
planet it scatters blue light in the
atmosphere the planet might look like
Earth from a distance but it's a gas
giant orbiting very close to its star
the temperature on the planet rises
higher than 1800 degrees Fahrenheit
don't touch the only asteroid belt in
the solar system astronomers know about
is between Mars and Jupiter there are
thousands of asteroids in this area
their irregularly shaped solid objects
of different sizes but all of them are
way smaller than a planet the ocean on
Jupiter is larger than any other in the
solar system but unlike Earth's oceans
it's made not of water but of metallic
hydrogen the oceans depth is a
mind-blowing 25,000
it's almost the same as the distance
around the earth scientists have
analyzed the chemical content of some
meteorites found in the Sahara Desert
Antarctica and other places some of the
rocks turned out to have Martian origin
others arrived from the moon or the
asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter
earth gets more energy from the Sun in
one hour than people spend in one year
during the past 15 years we've started
using 20% more solar energy it might
seem like a big deal but it's just 0.7%
of the amount of energy humans use every
year venus is infamous for its powerful
winds at the cloud tops they blow 50
times faster than the planet rotates
these fierce winds never stop and can
get even stronger with time the largest
canyon in the solar system Valles
Marineris on Mars is more than ten times
larger than the Earth's Grand Canyon
some astronomers believe that the canyon
appeared billions of years ago when the
planet was cooling down cryovolcanoes on
Pluto sometimes informally called ice
volcanoes spit ice or rather a melted
mixture of water ice and frozen ammonia
nitrogen and methane perhaps you could
write a book about it called Great
Expectations the Dickens you say the
Milky Way galaxy and the Andromeda
galaxy are going to meet in three point
seven five billion years they're moving
towards each other at a breakneck speed
when the two galaxies collide they'll
form a huge elliptical galaxy Wow hey if
you learn something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]
you